>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock,
and get ready for the download.
In fact, I recommend you
have your rewind button
hot and ready.
Because in this interview with
Laird Scranton here on my show,
"Disclosure," there is so
much information packed
into the next half
hour that if I even
tried to give you a
preview of all the things
you're about to learn, it would
take me 5 or 10 minutes just
to try to do an overview.
We go fast in this show.
And there's so much to discuss.
Laird Scranton's work has
tremendous implications.
And it all comes
back to the work
of a legendary
anthropologist named Griaule
and his partner, Dieterlen.
Griaule spent 30 years
getting initiated
into the secrets of a tribe
in Africa in the state of Mali
called the Dogon.
And their tradition is
that visitors from Sirius
came here, pointed
up to the star,
told us that's where they
came from, and gave him
very specific information
about Sirius that wasn't even
proven to be true
until later on,
the full extent
of what they said,
including the orbital periods
of this brown dwarf that
went around Sirius.
So there's a lot of really,
really fascinating things
that you're about to hear.
And the core of it is
the idea that there
was a secret tradition
that Griaule didn't really
get until the end, in
which they teach him
that there is a harmony between
the laws of nature in terms
of the creation of matter,
the creation of the universe,
and the creation of life.
That all three are governed
by similar principles.
And that in this weird,
ancient mythology system--
so-called mythology-- where
the people in this tribe
are actually painting their
illustrations in the sand,
they somehow have preserved
an incredible amount
of information about
science as we know it today
that is way beyond their
level of comprehension.
I know the laughter curtain
on this stuff is very large,
and there is a later
episode coming up
where I attack Laird
Scranton through the voices
of his critics.
But before we even get
to the critics' voices,
let's start with this
episode where you just
get to hear what
the man has to say,
and it is absolutely
fascinating.
Get ready for the meltdown.
Get ready for the download.
This breaks apart orthodox
theology completely.
It changes everything
we think we know,
and it suggests that there was a
single, unified group giving us
an incredible body
of information
and seeding it all
over the world.
Coming up here on
"Disclosure," Laird Scranton.
I suggest you get your pen and
paper ready because there's
a lot of things to remember.
I hope you enjoy it.
All right, Laird Scranton.
Welcome to "Disclosure."
Thanks for being here.
>>LAIRD SCRANTON: Thank you
very much for having me.
I appreciate it.
>>DAVID: So if you
could just summarize
for us what was the research
of Griaule and Dieterlen
that started in the 1930s
that led to Robert Temple's
conclusions.
>>SCRANTON: OK.
Well, Marcel Griaule
was, in his day,
the leading anthropologist,
really, in Europe.
He was a Frenchman.
And he devoted 30
years of his life--
not every day of those years--
but he made repeated visits
to the Dogon over the course
of 30 years with his student,
Germain Dieterlen.
>>DAVID: To the Dogon.
>>SCRANTON: To
the Dogon in Mali.
The Dogon are
situated eight hours
into the desert along
an escarpment in a very
inaccessible place in Mali.
And they spent their time
documenting the creation
tradition of this tribe.
>>DAVID: And this was an
untouched, unwesternized
culture.
>>SCRANTON: Yes, very little
contact with other cultures.
They had moved to
where they were
to escape forced conversion, we
think, to Islam in the 1500s.
But they claim to
have originally come
from a large lake far
to the east of them.
>>DAVID: So you have
this guy, Griaule,
who is one of the top-- or you
said the top anthropologist.
>>SCRANTON: The top.
He was cutting edge in his day.
He was the first to use film
to document his studies.
He was a very cutting edge guy.
>>DAVID: Now why do you think
that he would so specifically
focus on and devote his life
to studying the Dogon in Mali?
What was the sizzle there?
>>SCRANTON: Well,
that's interesting.
The Dogon were not the
only culture in that area
that he was studying.
There were several
related cultures
who all had a similar
creation tradition.
But I think he realized
early on that he
had stumbled across some
remnants of ancient symbols
and ancient traditions.
And he wanted to explore that.
But he came at it
without an agenda.
And he did a very good job of
documenting this tradition.
>>DAVID: Now were
these sand sketches
that they'd sketch with
their fingers in sand?
That kind of thing?
Or what else did they have?
>>SCRANTON: Well, the Dogon
don't have a written language.
And the Dogon are an
interesting culture
because they have
civic traditions that
are like ancient Egypt.
They have religious rituals
that are like Judaism.
And they have a creation
tradition that's like Buddhism.
So Griaule and Dieterlen studied
this tribe for a very long time
to document these things.
It's an esoteric tradition the
way the ancient traditions are,
many of them are.
By which I mean that
only students who
continue to pursue the inner
secrets of the tradition
ever learn them.
The secrets are open
to any tribe member who
wants to pursue it, but
it's the job of the student
to ask the next question.
If they keep asking an
appropriate question,
they get an honest answer.
If anybody were to come
in from the outside
and ask a question that was
inappropriate to their status
as an initiate,
they were supposed
to be met with silence
or, if necessary, a lie.
>>DAVID: So the thing
that I remember the most--
just so that we can
give everybody--
because there's going
to be some people,
and they usually cross
their arms, right?
That's what the skeptic does.
OK, OK, OK.
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
But Sirius.
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
The starting point for
this, the thing that
brought the Dogon into
the public attention
was a book that was
published in 1975
by my publisher, Inner
Traditions, called "The Sirius
Mystery."
It was written by
Robert KG Temple.
And his concern
was that the Dogon
seemed to have astronomic
knowledge that they shouldn't
have, given the
fact that they're
a modern day, primitive tribe.
They don't have
access to telescopes.
And they understood that
the very bright star
in the night sky, Sirius,
isn't just a single star.
That it's actually two stars--
a very bright sun-like star
and a very dark dwarf star,
a very heavy dwarf star
that you can't see because of
the glare of the bright star.
As a matter of
fact, modern science
hadn't been able to
image it until well
into the 20th century
with telescopes.
>>DAVID: And it's a brown dwarf?
>>SCRANTON: It's a brown dwarf.
The Dogon also knew the correct
orbital period for the two
stars and some other
details about the system,
some of which have been
confirmed and some that
haven't.
>>DAVID: Now these
people in Mali, the tribe
is called the Dogon, right?
>>SCRANTON: Right.
The tribe is called the Dogon.
>>DAVID: And they said that they
were contacted by-- was it Umo?
>>SCRANTON: Well, this gets
into areas of interpretation.
Robert Temple's viewpoint was
that this knowledge was likely
reflecting an alien contact.
And his approach in his book
was to describe it that way.
And he interpreted many of
the statements of the Dogon
as being descriptions
of alien beings
and being overt
confirmation of the fact
that there had been
an alien contact.
The problem is that in
these ancient cultures,
many of the references
they make in relation
to their cosmologies,
their creation traditions,
have both historic
aspects to them
and mythical aspects to them.
And so you have to be careful
as you wade through this stuff
not to accidentally
misinterpret something
that was supposed to be
mythical as being historical.
So Robert Temple came into this
and cast it as being strictly
a statement about alien contact,
which I think on one level,
it probably is.
But that created an uproar
and then created controversy.
And his book sold very well.
And it attracted the attention
of the science community.
>>DAVID: Well,
let's just hold off
for one second and review
something you already said,
which is the Dogon cosmology.
They're drawing
this image of Sirius
with another companion star.
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
>>DAVID: And are they
pointing at Sirius in the sky,
and they know
exactly what it is?
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
They can show the
anthropologists, here,
we're talking about
that particular star.
And in the night sky,
it's easy to find Sirius.
If you can find the belt
stars of Orion, which
are very obvious, you just draw
an imaginary line in your mind
down the belt
stars, and it points
right to where Sirius is.
So it's easy to identify.
>>DAVID: And you're saying that
they had the orbital periods.
>>SCRANTON: They knew
the orbital period
for the two stars,
which they shouldn't
have had without pretty
advanced telescopes.
They shouldn't have
been able to image that.
>>DAVID: So as the
brown dwarf crosses
in front of the other star, you
can see that in the telescope.
And there's a time
period of that that has
been calculated by scientists.
>>SCRANTON: If
you can filter out
the glare of the bright star,
you can see that happen.
>>DAVID: Is it
possible that they
could have done it
with a pinhole camera
or something like that?
>>SCRANTON: No, not
really conceivable
that they could have.
>>DAVID: That's what skeptics
are going to say, of course.
>>SCRANTON: Now Carl
Sagan came along and said,
well, clearly,
some modern visitor
who had knowledge of the tribe
told them about this stuff,
and they incorporated
it into their tradition.
And that's how they
got the knowledge.
>>DAVID: OK.
But when was the knowledge
of Sirius B discovered?
>>SCRANTON: I think our
earliest knowledge of it,
scientifically, was about 1918.
And the Griaule
and Dieterlen stuff
wasn't documented until sometime
probably in the early 1950s.
So the timing is such
that Sagan could be
right in terms of time frame.
The problem is that
the Dogon system that
gives this knowledge is all
expressed using words that
are ancient Egyptian words.
That's part of what my work
has been, is to demonstrate how
the correlations work
between those words.
And those words went out
of use around 700 BC.
So the difficulty
with Sagan's position
is precisely which
candidate would
he suggest came in and gave
that knowledge to the Dogon
using ancient Egyptian words?
It's not a credible thing.
>>DAVID: And Egypt is in Africa.
Mali is in Africa.
It's a conceivable
distance that you could
travel by caravan to go there.
>>SCRANTON: Right.
Also, the Dogon have
civic traditions
that are predictably like the
ancient Egyptian traditions.
So there's every reason
to think that there
was contact between the two
cultures, intimate contact.
Because if the Dogon do it,
it's a pretty good guess
that the Egyptians also did it.
>>DAVID: Really?
What's an example that would
be too obvious to ignore?
>>SCRANTON: OK, too obvious
to ignore-- they establish
their villages and districts
in pairs called upper and lower
as Egypt did.
Egypt was established as two
kingships, upper and lower,
or two regions, upper and lower.
That's a very obvious one.
But there are many
others that are true.
The Dogon have the same set
of complicated calendars
that the Egyptians have.
They have numerous
other traditions
that are like ancient Egypt.
>>DAVID: Well, and this includes
counting 360 days in the year
and then the intercalary
days of five added on, right?
>>SCRANTON: It
includes one calendar
that is a 360 day calendar that
is cast as a solar calendar
but without the
intercalary days.
OK, and so part of the
reason-- one of the ways
that we can place the Dogon
relationship to Egypt in a time
frame is by the
things they don't
have that the Egyptians did.
Those intercalary days appeared
in Egypt around 2,900 BC,
and the Dogon don't have them.
Writing appeared in
Egypt around 3,000 BC,
and the Dogon don't have
a system of writing,
and nobody thinks they could
have had one and lost it.
And so those strongly
suggest that whatever
contact there was
between the Egyptians
and the Dogon ended
before writing appeared.
>>DAVID: Before 3,000 BC.
>>SCRANTON: Right.
>>DAVID: You said that there
are specific words that
appear in both languages.
Could you give us
a couple examples?
>>SCRANTON: Yes, and whoever
put the system of words,
these cosmological words
together, did me a huge favor.
Because from a
linguistic standpoint,
because there are only about
40 phonetic values in any given
language that are trying
to be represented,
there's a huge
chance of coincidence
that two words are going to
be pronounced the same way,
with the same meaning in
two different languages
but without a real
connection between the words.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>SCRANTON: OK.
In the cosmology
that the Dogon have,
every significant term is
given at least two meanings,
and those meanings are logically
distanced from one another.
So you can't guess
the second meaning
by knowing the first one.
So now you go to Egypt, and
you find the same two meanings
attached to the
same phonetic value,
and you've got a
lock on meaning.
It's not a traditional
etymological lock,
but it's evidence that
any reasonable person
ought to accept.
It goes beyond coincidence.
Now, it's not just
a single word that
does that but an
entire system of words
that all work that way.
And so it really goes way beyond
the possibility of coincidence.
I'll give you an example.
Many of the Dogon and Egyptian
words are also Hebrew words.
The Dogon creator
god, who is considered
to be their hidden
god, is named "Amma."
And he's like the
counterpart to Amen in Egypt,
who is the hidden god.
The word "Amma" also means
to grasp, or to hold firm,
or to establish.
The Egyptian word also means
to grasp or to hold firm.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: When
you go to Hebrew--
I read an article a few years
back by a Hebrew scholar who
was arguing that the Hebrew
word amen at the end of Hebrew
prayers couldn't be related
to the Egyptian god Amen
because it comes from a root
that means "to establish."
So he didn't understand
the way the meanings work.
>>DAVID: Oh my gosh.
>>SCRANTON: So he was
actually shooting himself
in the foot when we
made that statement.
But this is the
way the words work.
And there's lots
of other evidence
besides that to support it.
I mean, for example,
with the two gods,
each holds a similar role in the
cosmology, similar relationship
to other deities.
They're credited
with the same acts.
So they have the
same iconic objects.
So there's lots of
evidence to correlate this.
>>DAVID: Now, we also
have a fascinating study
of the Hebrew Sephiroth, the
original Kabbalistic tree
of life.
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
>>DAVID: And as you're telling
me this stuff, I'm thinking,
hmm, is there a Kabbalah
connection to this?
>>SCRANTON: Absolutely.
And the farther down towards the
bottom of the system you get,
the more commonality you
can see with the Kabbala.
>>DAVID: Really?
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
>>DAVID: Could you
give me an example?
>>SCRANTON: About
five years ago,
John Anthony West emailed me.
And he said, you know, there's
a word for the kind of study
you're doing, the
comparisons you're doing.
There's a tradition that
Schwaller de Lubicz,
out of Egypt, the
symbolist, wrote about.
It's called "The
Bridge of Sirah."
S-I-R-A-H. And the upshot of
it is that when the truth is
finally known, it will lie
along a razor's edge between two
chasms, one that represents
science and the other that
represents superstition.
Well, in the
Kabbalist tradition,
they have the same concept.
It's called Nisirah, and
it describes the same sorts
of elements of cosmology that
relate to this Bridge of Sirah
concept in Islam and
that also tie back
to the other traditions
of that site.
So there are some fairly
compelling reasons to think.
>>DAVID: Yeah, and if the
words that the Dogon are using
correspond to the
words in Egypt,
you're saying that this
predates the written
hieroglyphic delineation
of those words?
>>SCRANTON: It's generally
understood that cosmology
preceded writing in the
culture, the ancient cultures,
including Egypt.
OK, and what it looks
like is, because each
of the cosmological terms that
the Dogon define are normally
associated with a drawing,
a cosmological drawing.
As a matter of fact,
the Dogon priests
say they are incapable
of discussing
a concept of cosmology without
also drawing it in the sand.
>>DAVID: Oh, wow.
>>SCRANTON: OK.
These shapes that have multiple
meanings associated with them,
there a set of about 30 of
those that take the same form
and same meanings
as Egyptian glyphs.
So it looks to me as if the
earliest hieroglyphic writing
in Egypt, they adopted wholesale
these cosmological figures
and meanings as
meanings for the glyphs.
>>DAVID: Right, so the
key with hieroglyphics
is it doesn't happen until
later that language actually
uses vowels and consonants
to delineate sound per se.
>>SCRANTON: The
official viewpoint
is that the Egyptian
hieroglyphic language was
primarily phonetic in nature.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>SCRANTON: But if you
consider that you've
got 40 phonetic values
and 4,000 Egyptian glyphs,
it doesn't take a
rocket scientist
to figure out that it couldn't
have been phonetic primarily.
>>DAVID: Absolutely.
So we have a culture
that seems to have
been in multiple locations.
We could say that it was the
precedent for Hebrew culture,
the precedent for
Egyptian culture,
the precedent for Dogon culture.
>>SCRANTON: Right.
>>DAVID: That there may
have been one seed of origin
that they all sprouted from.
And the Dogon just sort of got
isolated into a small area.
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
You've just described the
last 20 years of my work--
is tracing that concept.
>>DAVID: Now, what's interesting
about your work beyond what
we've discussed already is
that you have advanced the idea
that these allegedly
primitive myths encode
a great deal of relevant
scientific information
that is very current
for our time.
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
Now, the Sirius information,
as it turns out,
is just the very smallest
tip of the iceberg.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: The Dogon say
that their tradition describes
how their tribal god
Amma created matter.
Now, I could see from
my limited perspective
at the time I
started researching
is that they had the
definition of an atom right.
They had definitions
of electrons, protons,
and neutrons right.
But they described a whole
descending structure from there
that I wasn't
qualified to evaluate.
So I started educating myself
about the structure of matter,
reading Brian Greene and Stephen
Hawking and people like that.
And what I discovered was
that you can take passages
from Brian Greene
and Steven Hawking,
and lay them side by
side with descriptions
from the Dogon, along with
the diagram from Hawking
and the drawing from
the Dogon, and lay out
the entire structure of matter
all the way down to waves,
and it's right.
>>DAVID: Wow.
And Richard Fineman would
be included in there, too.
>>SCRANTON: Well, yes.
Fineman probably
wouldn't agree with this,
but many of the things
that Fineman talks about
are included in there.
But it actually
goes a little bit
beyond what traditional
astrophysicists talk about.
For example, the
Dogon discuss how
is it-- if matter exists
as waves originally
and then becomes particles, the
Dogon talk about that process
of how that happens.
And Brian Greene and
Stephen Hawking don't.
>>DAVID: So they've got
Heisenberg's uncertainty
principle nailed.
>>SCRANTON: Yes,
and they also talk
about things like what
preceded the Big Bang.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: So we're
talking information
that looks like it leads what
we know by maybe 50 years.
>>DAVID: So they're
seeing galaxies
as blossoming from a
center or something?
>>SCRANTON: OK, if
you remember that
in these esoteric traditions,
in the hermetic tradition,
the quintessential statement
of this creation tradition
is as above, so below?
>>DAVID: Right.
>>SCRANTON: OK, that
implies that at some level,
the processes of the
macrocosm, the universe,
are fundamentally similar
to the processes of matter.
>>DAVID: Sure.
>>SCRANTON: OK, that's what
this Dogon system is all about.
When they talk about
cosmology or creation,
they're talking about three
themes: creation of matter,
creation of the universe,
and creation of life.
But then what they proceed
to do is define all three
of those processes using a
single sequence of symbols.
>>DAVID: Ah, right.
>>SCRANTON: OK, so this
sequence of symbols,
because each symbol
can be used effectively
to represent an aspect of those
processes in the right order,
demonstrate that
all of those things
are fundamentally similar when
you get to the bottom of it.
>>DAVID: So you therefore can
extrapolate into the science
of DNA and chromosomes.
>>SCRANTON: Right, you could.
There are statements they
make about those things that
are as scientifically accurate
as the creation of matter
stages they talk about.
>>DAVID: So for example,
human chromosomes
are going to be either xx
or xy depending on gender.
You have 22 chromosomes.
>>SCRANTON: Getting
back to the xx,
xy, in Dogon
numerology, three, which
is comparable to the three
branches of that Y chromosome,
is the number of the male.
Four, which corresponds to
the four branches of the x,
is the number of the
female, and seven is
the number of the individual.
You combine the x and
the y to get the person.
>>DAVID: Oh my gosh.
>>SCRANTON: And the tradition
is a matriarchal tradition.
What they've just
described there
is the genetics of a
woman, or of a girl.
>>DAVID: Right.
Obviously, a skeptic
would say, well,
he's just playing with numbers.
But there's more
to the chromosomes
that you're seeing
than just that.
>>SCRANTON: OK, for a person
who researches the things I
research, the single greatest
danger in trying to research it
is our own wishfulness.
Our mind is wired
to see patterns even
where they don't exist.
If you think of a child
lying in a field looking up
at the clouds, they
often don't see clouds.
They say, well, look,
there's a chicken.
And look, there's
a-- they see images.
They're imaginative.
>>DAVID: It's like the grilled
cheese sandwich with Jesus.
>>SCRANTON: That's right.
That's right.
So people are going
to see patterns,
even where they don't exist.
So the difficulty
for somebody like me
is how do you
distinguish between
a wishful interpretation and one
that's a real interpretation?
And the standard I set for
myself was every interpretation
has to start with an
explicit statement
on the part of the culture.
So I don't say that the
system represents matter,
the Dogon do.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: Now, once
you get into the arena
where you have multiple
traditions that
look like they came out
of the same system, now
you can require that that
flat statement be confirmed
by others of those
cultures, that they also
saw it the same way.
So we have two cultures overtly
saying we see it this way.
And now I'm in a
position to pursue that.
And when I get to that
end of that pursuit,
if I can finish a simple
sentence, a sentence that says,
"we know this must
be true, because,"
then I have a working
interpretation.
If I can't, that gets set aside.
That's something that
may or may not be true,
and I hope that some
little detail will turn up
in some other culture that will
pull it all together for me.
>>DAVID: So I've seen,
and I have in my slide
shows, a sculpture allegedly
from the Dogon in Mali
that has a human face
that's very unusual.
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
>>DAVID: It has
large eyes that wrap
clear across to about
here on the face.
>>SCRANTON: OK.
>>DAVID: And a large head.
>>DAVID: You've been really
tentative about whether there's
any ET involvement in this or
not so far in our interview.
>>SCRANTON: OK, well in
the Buddhist tradition,
it's flatly stated that the
most sacred symbols were given
to them by a non-human source.
They flatly say that.
In the Dogon
tradition, they say it
was given to them by a non-human
source, but they qualify that.
They say it was
not only non-human,
it was also non-physical.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>SCRANTON: But this is a
complicated non-physical,
because they tell us
that whoever gave them
this knowledge in ancient
times was concerned about what
the long term
effects on our health
would be from being around them.
>>DAVID: Oh wow.
>>SCRANTON: And so
their solution to that
was to take eight
Dogon tribespeople
and sequester them at
some remote location,
and teach those eight the
civilizing skills they were
trying to teach them, and
these civilizing skills
were given in the context
of this creation system,
and then send those
eight back to the tribe
to teach everybody else.
>>DAVID: Do you
think it's possible
that they had radioactive
isotopes coming off
of their bodies or something?
>>SCRANTON: No, I think if
they truly were non-physical,
there are indications
that if you believe
the Dogon, and the Buddhists,
and the Kabbalists,
universes form in pairs-- one
material, one non-material,
and that there's a boundary
between those universes that
through electromagnetics
you can breach.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>SCRANTON: OK, now, any
time you get into a situation
where there are
electromagnetics strong enough
to create these funny effects
that might potentially
breach that, you get really
bad effects on human health.
And I think that that's what
they were talking about.
>>DAVID: Sure.
Well, another thing that
I find really fascinating
is you have the Dogon
in Africa, and then you
have the Dogu in Japan.
Now, I have a personal
knowledge of this,
because I studied with a guy
who was a Shinto acupuncturist,
the most horrific
torture you can imagine.
You'll find he'll stick the
needle all over your body
and find the most painful
place and just go crazy on it.
>>SCRANTON: Uh-huh.
They were originally
tax accountants, right?
>>DAVID: Probably so.
Now, the Japanese
tradition is that they
have Anemono Toribune, or the
flying boats from the universe.
They land.
These people get out.
They're called Dogu.
And then the tribe in
Africa is called Dogon,
which is very interesting.
And these people
literally civilized Japan.
They gave them the tea ceremony.
They gave them kimonos.
They gave them--
thank God-- wasabi.
Sushi, all that
technique, how to terrace
for rice growth, all
this kind of stuff,
and ultimately, their
written language.
>>SCRANTON: Right.
>>DAVID: Now, if you've got
flying boats from the universe
and a people calling
themselves Dogu,
and then the
sculpture of the Dogon
looks like the sculpture
of the Dogu from Japan,
it appears there's a
common origin here.
>>SCRANTON: Yes, I would
say there probably is.
But the way I see it,
because in the cultures
I've studied from Africa, Egypt,
India, Tibet, and China, so far
today through the
books I've written,
they all say the same thing.
They all say that the
way they got this--
they received this
tradition was it
was an instructed tradition
given to them by somebody
who knew more than they did.
In Egypt, the myth
is, or the story
is, that their
written language was
given to them by their gods.
The story in Egypt is the
plan for the Giza Plateau
fell from the skies, comparable
to, say, a crop circle.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>SCRANTON: So in each
of these cultures,
there's this idea that somebody
who knew more than we did
taught us this stuff
a long time ago.
>>DAVID: I've also noted
that Mesoamerican sculptures
of Viracocha, the oldest ones
as well as the Hopi Kachina
sculptures all have
morphological characteristics
similar to the Dogon sculpture
and the Dogu sculpture.
>>SCRANTON: Yes, and I see
connections to the Hopi.
The China book spells out
one very clear connection
to North American
Native American tribes.
You can find that there's a
portable shrine called a yurt.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>SCRANTON: And the
symbolism of a yurt
is all the same symbolism
as a Buddhist stupa.
Only difference is,
instead of being
built as a permanent structure,
it's built to be portable.
It's a portable tent.
>>DAVID: Right.
The stupa has the
little column on top,
but otherwise the
shape is identical.
I never thought of that.
>>SCRANTON: OK, now, there
are different forms of yurts.
The most complex form
of a yurt is a match
for the Navajo roundhouse, both
structurally and symbolically.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: So you know
there's a connection.
The simplest form
of yurt in Mongolia
is referred to as a
teepee, and it looks just
like a Native American teepee.
>>DAVID: Wow.
And it's actually
called a teepee?
>>SCRANTON: It's
called a teepee.
>>DAVID: Geez.
>>SCRANTON: So you've
got connections there
through cosmology
into North America
that I know because
of the practices
the Hopi still
perpetuate that they're
likely to be connected there.
Part of what I've done through
my study in the third book I
wrote, which is called "The
Cosmological Origins of Myth
and Symbol"-- the
purpose of that book
was to set out a list
of what I considered
to be the signatures
of this tradition.
And by signature I
mean if a culture
has this, it's not reasonable
that they didn't have
the whole tradition,
or at least it wasn't
influenced by the tradition.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>SCRANTON: OK, and
then use that list
to predict what I was going to
find when I explored a Tibetan
culture called
the Nakhi who were
at the borderline
between Tibet and China.
And having done that then,
the way the books plays out,
the Tibetan culture affirms
each one of those signatures.
And so from there, you can
conclude that at bottom it
was the same tradition.
They have even have
glyphs that look
like the Egyptian hieroglyphs
that have the same meanings
and so forth.
And so this has been the
approach I've been taking,
is to establish
these commonalities
and then use them to
positively demonstrate
the influence of this
tradition in all these places.
>>DAVID: It is
amazing to consider
that this pictographic depiction
of verbal, transmitted data
in Africa could contain so
much information that can now
be deciphered in modern times.
Do you think that the
people who gave them this
wanted that to happen,
that that was their intent?
>>SCRANTON: Absolutely they did.
I'm sure they did.
And it's interesting
that the cultures that
never developed
writing did the best
job of keeping it straight.
But these studies
also led me to look
at Egyptian words, initially
just the words that
had those 30 common symbols.
I was trying to understand
how the hieroglyphs worked.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>SCRANTON: Well, so I was
focusing on very simple words.
If I had had
perfect knowledge, I
would have started with
an Egyptian word that
means "week."
It's written with two glyphs.
The Egyptian sun glyph,
which is a circle
with a dot in the middle of
it, represents the concept
of a day or the sun.
Or you find it in
words whose meanings
represent periods of time.
And the second glyph
is an upside down
U that is the
Egyptian number 10.
And so I looked at
that word, and I said,
symbolically, this word
says to me 10 days.
And I went, and I
did some research,
and discovered the Egyptians
had a ten day week.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: So amazingly,
this little hieroglyphic word,
if you read it my way,
tells you its own meaning.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: So
then I asked what's
the possibility that
other Egyptian words might
work this way?
Turns out they all do if
you know the right meaning
for the glyph.
But in addition, there
are certain Egyptian words
where, in addition to that
little symbolic sentence,
you also have a
trailing glyphs that
is drawn into the
word for emphasis
according to the egyptologists.
But I can see, when
I read these words,
that the reason
that trailing glyph
is there is because the
symbolic sentence defines
the meaning of the glyph.
So now you can lay
out definitions
for all of the Egyptian glyphs
based on their own references,
their own authority.
And now you can read pretty
much any Egyptian word you want.
If there's a cosmological
concept I don't understand,
the first thing I do is I go
to the Egyptian hieroglyphic
dictionary and use it
like an encyclopedia
to explain to me what did
they think about this concept.
>>DAVID: That's brilliant.
Well, this is the
end of the time
that we have for
this episode, but you
must feel a very strong sense
of duty and responsibility
to get this out
there, because you
have such a huge body of
knowledge that would really
advance humanity,
and that nobody
knows about other
than the people who
have found your work.
>>SCRANTON: Well, there's
sort of a yin yang
to that, because it's
also a body of knowledge
that somebody went
to enormous effort
to keep secret for
thousands of years.
And so the question
arises what right
do I have at this point in time
to publish about this stuff?
But my outlook on that is the
only purpose for producing
this information
was in the hopes
that we were going to notice
that our religion matched
science and shortcut us
towards scientific ends.
And if we're within 50 years now
of the sum of that knowledge,
we only have a 50
year time period
in which for it have any benefit
based on what was intended.
And so I use that as a rationale
for why I should talk about it.
>>DAVID: Well, this
has been mind blowing.
Thank you, Laird.
I really appreciate it.
>>SCRANTON: Thanks very much.
I really appreciate it too.
>>DAVID: I believe that
what we're seeing here
is the records of the
positive side of ET contact.
These people that were
called the Dogon in Africa
also appear to be the Dogu who
contacted the people in Japan.
They also appear to be
the essence of Viracocha
who contacted Mesoamerica.
They also appear to be the
Kachina who contacted the Hopi.
And consistently,
they are giving us
a positive, benevolent
view of our cosmos,
showing the interconnection
between the creation of matter,
the creation of the
universe, and the creation
of biological life.
It's also interesting
that Laird Scranton says
that their philosophy describes
how universes are created
in pairs, and that there is a
metaphysical universe and also
physical universe, and
that these ancient gods had
the tribesmen wear
these masks to suggest
that the true face of
this parallel universe,
the spiritual world,
is not visible to us.
We only see a reflection
of it, but yet they
can see through the mask and can
perfectly see into our realm.
Well, this relates to things
I've said on my other show,
"Wisdom Teachings," many
times about the idea
that in fact, science
does say there
is a parallel reality in which
time becomes three dimensional.
It's called time-space
as opposed to space-time.
So I think you can see, if
you've seen my other show,
that what Scranton
is giving us really
ties it all together
very beautifully.
Next time, coming up
here on "Disclosure,"
I'm going to have yet another
amazing interview with Graham
Hancock.
And this time, we get in a
lot more detail about DMT,
the pineal gland,
shamanism, and how many
of these ancient
cultures apparently
did use shamanic
visionary states in order
to expand their consciousness
and get a greater view
of the world that we live in.
That's coming up next
time here on "Disclosure."
I'm your host, David Wilcock,
and I thank you for watching.
>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC]